it is a most extraordinary thing, but i never read a patent medicine  
advertisement without being impelled to the conclusion that i am  
suffering from the particular disease therein dealt with in its most  
virulent form.  the diagnosis seems in every case to correspond exactly  
with all the sensations that i have ever felt. 
 
i remember going to the british museum one day to read up the treatment  
for some slight ailment of which i had a touch  hay fever, i fancy it  
was.  i got down the book, and read all i came to read; and then, in an  
unthinking moment, i idly turned the leaves, and began to indolently  
study diseases, generally.  i forget which was the first distemper i  
plunged into  some fearful, devastating scourge, i know  and, before i  
had glanced half down the list of "premonitory symptoms," it was borne in  
upon me that i had fairly got it. 
 
i sat for awhile, frozen with horror; and then, in the listlessness of  
despair, i again turned over the pages.  i came to typhoid fever  read  
the symptoms  discovered that i had typhoid fever, must have had it for  
months without knowing it  wondered what else i had got; turned up st.  
vitus's dance  found, as i expected, that i had that too,  began to get  
interested in my case, and determined to sift it to the bottom, and so  
started alphabetically  read up ague, and learnt that i was sickening  
for it, and that the acute stage would commence in about another  
fortnight.  bright's disease, i was relieved to find, i had only in a  
modified form, and, so far as that was concerned, i might live for years.   
cholera i had, with severe complications; and diphtheria i seemed to have  
been born with.  i plodded conscientiously through the twentysix  
letters, and the only malady i could conclude i had not got was  
housemaid's knee. 
 
 
 
